@vskip 0pt plus 1filll

Copyright @copyright{} 2001, 2002, 2003 Peter Jones
<@url{http://pmade.org/pjones}>

@sp 1

Copyright @copyright{} 2005 Thomas M. Browder,
Jr. <@email{tbrowder2@@users.sourceforge.net}>

@sp 2

Redistribution and use in source (SGML DocBook) and 'compiled'
forms (SGML, HTML, PDF, PostScript, RTF and so forth) with or
without modification, are permitted provided that the following
conditions are met:

@sp 1

@enumerate

@item
Redistributions of source code (SGML DocBook) must retain
the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the
following disclaimer as the first lines of this file
unmodified.

@item
Redistributions in compiled form (transformed to other DTDs,
converted to PDF, PostScript, RTF and other formats) must
reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of
conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

@sp 2

@cartouche

@quotation

THIS DOCUMENTATION IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN
ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS DOCUMENTATION, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

@end quotation

@end cartouche

@end enumerate

@c abstract

@page

@center @titlefont{Abstract}

@sp 2

This book provides a guide to working with XML data using C++ and the
xmlwrapp library. It covers everything that you will need to know to get
started working with xmlwrapp.  After reading this book, you should not
have any trouble reading the xmlwrapp header files or using the xmlwrapp
reference documents.

@sp 1

The latest version of this book can be found at
@url{http://sourceforge.net/@/projects/@/xmlwrapp}.
